---
title: _3d.old
date: 2020-05-07
---
Example Python program _3d.old.py

## Modules

* # import here to avoid circular import problem
* from ..source_estimate import (_BaseSourceEstimate, SourceEstimate,
* import mayavi
* import surfer
* from surfer import Brain, TimeViewer

## Methods

* def plot_source_estimates(stc, subject=None, surface=None, hemi='lh',

## Code

Python example

    def plot_source_estimates(stc, subject=None, surface=None, hemi='lh',
                              colormap='auto', time_label='auto',
                              smoothing_steps=10, transparent=None,
                              brain_alpha=None, alpha=None, vector_alpha=1.,
                              scale_factor=None, time_viewer=False,
                              subjects_dir=None, figure=None, views='lat',
                              colorbar=True, clim='auto', cortex="classic",
                              size=800, background="black", foreground="white",
                              initial_time=None, time_unit='s', backend='auto',
                              spacing='oct6'):
        """Plot SourceEstimates with PySurfer or matplotlib.
    
        Note: PySurfer currently needs the SUBJECTS_DIR environment variable,
        which will automatically be set by this function. Plotting multiple
        SourceEstimates with different values for subjects_dir will cause
        PySurfer to use the wrong FreeSurfer surfaces when using methods of
        the returned Brain object. It is therefore recommended to set the
        SUBJECTS_DIR environment variable or always use the same value for
        subjects_dir (within the same Python session).
    
        By default this function uses Mayavi to plot the source estimates. If
        Mayavi is not installed, the plotting is done with matplotlib (much slower,
        decimated source space by default).
    
        Parameters
        ----------
        stc : SourceEstimate | VectorSourceEstimate
            The source estimate to plot.
        subject : str | None
            The subject name corresponding to FreeSurfer environment
            variable SUBJECT. If None stc.subject will be used. If that
            is None, the environment will be used.
        surface : str | None
            The type of surface (inflated, white etc.). By default, the inflated
            surface is chosen for plotting SurfaceSourceEstimates. For
            VectorSourceEstimates, the only valid option is the white matter
            surface.
        hemi : str, 'lh' | 'rh' | 'split' | 'both'
            The hemisphere to display. Defaults to 'lh'.
        colormap : str | np.ndarray of float, shape(n_colors, 3 | 4)
            Name of colormap to use or a custom look up table. If array, must
            be (n x 3) or (n x 4) array for with RGB or RGBA values between
            0 and 255. If 'auto', either 'hot' or 'mne' will be chosen
            based on whether 'lims' or 'pos_lims' are specified in `clim`.
        time_label : str | callable | None
            Format of the time label (a format string, a function that maps
            floating point time values to strings, or None for no label). The
            default is ``time=%0.2f ms``.
        smoothing_steps : int
            The amount of smoothing. Defaults to 10.
        transparent : bool | None
            If True, use a linear transparency between fmin and fmid.
            None will choose automatically based on colormap type. Has no effect
            with mpl backend.
        brain_alpha : float | None
            Alpha value to apply globally to the surface meshes. Defaults to 1.
            when plotting SourceEstimates and 0.4 when plotting
            VectorSourceEstimates.
        alpha : float | None
            Alpha value to apply globally to the overlay. Defaults to
            ``brain_alpha``. Has no effect with mpl backend.
        vector_alpha : float
            Alpha value to apply globally to the vector glyphs. Defaults to 1.
        scale_factor : float | None
            Scaling factor for vector glyphs. By default, an attempt is made to
            automatically determine a sane value.
        time_viewer : bool
            Display time viewer GUI. Defaults to False.
        subjects_dir : str
            The path to the freesurfer subjects reconstructions.
            By default this value is taken from the Freesurfer environment variable
            SUBJECTS_DIR.
        figure : instance of mayavi.core.scene.Scene | instance of matplotlib.figure.Figure | list | int | None
            If None, a new figure will be created. If multiple views or a
            split view is requested, this must be a list of the appropriate
            length. If int is provided it will be used to identify the Mayavi
            figure by it's id or create a new figure with the given id. If an
            instance of matplotlib figure, mpl backend is used for plotting.
        views : str | list
            View to use. See surfer.Brain(). Supported views: ['lat', 'med', 'fos',
            'cau', 'dor' 'ven', 'fro', 'par']. Using multiple views is not
            supported for mpl backend. Defaults to a lateral ('lat') view.
        colorbar : bool
            If True, display colorbar on scene. Not available on mpl backend.
            Defaults to True.
        clim : str | dict
            Colorbar properties specification. If 'auto', set clim automatically
            based on data percentiles. If dict, should contain:
    
                ``kind`` : str
                    Flag to specify type of limits. 'value' or 'percent'.
                ``lims`` : list | np.ndarray | tuple of float, 3 elements
                    Note: Only use this if 'colormap' is not 'mne'.
                    Left, middle, and right bound for colormap.
                ``pos_lims`` : list | np.ndarray | tuple of float, 3 elements
                    Note: Only use this if 'colormap' is 'mne'.
                    Left, middle, and right bound for colormap. Positive values
                    will be mirrored directly across zero during colormap
                    construction to obtain negative control points.
    
        cortex : str or tuple
            Specifies how binarized curvature values are rendered.
            Either the name of a preset PySurfer cortex colorscheme (one of
            'classic', 'bone', 'low_contrast', or 'high_contrast'), or the name of
            mayavi colormap, or a tuple with values (colormap, min, max, reverse)
            to fully specify the curvature colors. Has no effect with mpl backend.
            Defaults to 'classic'.
        size : float or pair of floats
            The size of the window, in pixels. can be one number to specify
            a square window, or the (width, height) of a rectangular window.
            Has no effect with mpl backend.
        background : matplotlib color
            Color of the background of the display window. Defaults to "black".
        foreground : matplotlib color
            Color of the foreground of the display window. Has no effect with mpl
            backend. Defaults to "white".
        initial_time : float | None
            The time to display on the plot initially. ``None`` to display the
            first time sample (default).
        time_unit : 's' | 'ms'
            Whether time is represented in seconds ("s", default) or
            milliseconds ("ms").
        backend : 'auto' | 'mayavi' | 'matplotlib'
            Which backend to use. If ``'auto'`` (default), tries to plot with
            mayavi, but resorts to matplotlib if mayavi is not available.
    
            .. versionadded:: 0.15.0
    
        spacing : str
            The spacing to use for the source space. Can be ``'ico#'`` for a
            recursively subdivided icosahedron, ``'oct#'`` for a recursively
            subdivided octahedron, or ``'all'`` for all points. In general, you can
            speed up the plotting by selecting a sparser source space. Has no
            effect with mayavi backend. Defaults to 'oct6'.
    
            .. versionadded:: 0.15.0
    
        Returns
        -------
        figure : surfer.viz.Brain | matplotlib.figure.Figure
            An instance of surfer.viz.Brain from PySurfer or matplotlib figure.
        """  # noqa: E501
        # import here to avoid circular import problem
        from ..source_estimate import (_BaseSourceEstimate, SourceEstimate,
                                       VectorSourceEstimate)
        if not isinstance(stc, _BaseSourceEstimate):
            raise ValueError('stc has to be a surface or vector source estimate')
        subjects_dir = get_subjects_dir(subjects_dir=subjects_dir,
                                        raise_error=True)
        subject = _check_subject(stc.subject, subject, True)
        if backend not in ['auto', 'matplotlib', 'mayavi']:
            raise ValueError("backend must be 'auto', 'mayavi' or 'matplotlib'. "
                             "Got %s." % backend)
        plot_mpl = backend == 'matplotlib'
        if not plot_mpl:
            try:
                import mayavi
            except ImportError:
                if backend == 'auto' and isinstance(stc, SourceEstimate):
                    warn('Mayavi not found. Resorting to matplotlib 3d.')
                    plot_mpl = True
                else:  # 'mayavi'
                    raise
    
        if plot_mpl:
            if isinstance(stc, VectorSourceEstimate):
                raise NotImplementedError(
                    'Plotting of VectorSourceEstimates using matplotlib is not '
                    'supported.'
                )
            if surface is None:
                surface = 'inflated'
            return _plot_mpl_stc(stc, subject=subject, surface=surface, hemi=hemi,
                                 colormap=colormap, time_label=time_label,
                                 smoothing_steps=smoothing_steps,
                                 subjects_dir=subjects_dir, views=views, clim=clim,
                                 figure=figure, initial_time=initial_time,
                                 time_unit=time_unit, background=background,
                                 spacing=spacing, time_viewer=time_viewer)
        import surfer
        from surfer import Brain, TimeViewer
        surfer_version = LooseVersion(surfer.__version__)
        v06 = LooseVersion('0.6')
        v07 = LooseVersion('0.7')
        v08 = LooseVersion('0.8')
    
        brain_kwargs = dict()
        data_kwargs = dict()
    
        if initial_time is not None and surfer_version > v06:
            data_kwargs['initial_time'] = initial_time
            initial_time = None  # don't set it twice
    
        time_label, times = _handle_time(time_label, time_unit, stc.times)
    
        if hemi not in ['lh', 'rh', 'split', 'both']:
            raise ValueError('hemi has to be either "lh", "rh", "split", '
                             'or "both"')
    
        # check `figure` parameter (This will be performed by PySurfer > 0.6)
        if figure is not None:
            if isinstance(figure, int):
                # use figure with specified id
                size_ = size if isinstance(size, (tuple, list)) else (size, size)
                figure = [mayavi.mlab.figure(figure, size=size_)]
            elif not isinstance(figure, (list, tuple)):
                figure = [figure]
            if not all(isinstance(f, mayavi.core.scene.Scene) for f in figure):
                raise TypeError('figure must be a mayavi scene or list of scenes')
    
        if isinstance(stc, SourceEstimate):
            if surfer_version < v06:
                raise ImportError("This function requires PySurfer 0.6 (you are "
                                  "running version %s). You can update PySurfer "
                                  "using:\n\n    $ pip install -U pysurfer" %
                                  surfer.__version__)
    
            # convert control points to locations in colormap
            scale_pts, colormap = _limits_to_control_points(clim, stc.data,
                                                            colormap)
    
            if surface is None:
                surface = 'inflated'
            if brain_alpha is None:
                brain_alpha = 1.
    
        elif isinstance(stc, VectorSourceEstimate):
            if surfer_version < v08:
                raise ImportError("To plot vector source estimates, this function "
                                  "requires PySurfer 0.8 (you are running version "
                                  "%s). You can update PySurfer using:\n\n"
                                  "    $ pip install -U pysurfer" %
                                  surfer.__version__)
    
            # convert control points to locations in colormap
            scale_pts, colormap = _limits_to_control_points(
                clim, stc.magnitude().data, colormap
            )
    
            if surface is None:
                surface = 'white'
            elif surface != 'white':
                raise ValueError("For plotting VectorSourceEstimates, the surface "
                                 "parameter must be set to 'white'.")
    
            data_kwargs['scale_factor'] = scale_factor
            data_kwargs['vector_alpha'] = vector_alpha
            if brain_alpha is None:
                brain_alpha = 0.4
    
        else:
            raise ValueError('stc has to be a surface or vector source estimate')
    
        if surfer_version > v07:
            brain_kwargs['alpha'] = brain_alpha
        if alpha is None:
            alpha = brain_alpha
    
        if hemi in ['both', 'split']:
            hemis = ['lh', 'rh']
        else:
            hemis = [hemi]
    
        title = subject if len(hemis) > 1 else '%s - %s' % (subject, hemis[0])
        with warnings.catch_warnings(record=True):  # traits warnings
            brain = Brain(subject, hemi=hemi, surf=surface, curv=True,
                          title=title, cortex=cortex, size=size,
                          background=background, foreground=foreground,
                          figure=figure, subjects_dir=subjects_dir,
                          views=views, **brain_kwargs)
    
        _toggle_mlab_render(brain._figures, False)
    
        for hemi in hemis:
            hemi_idx = 0 if hemi == 'lh' else 1
            if hemi_idx == 0:
                data = stc.data[:len(stc.vertices[0])]
            else:
                data = stc.data[len(stc.vertices[0]):]
            vertices = stc.vertices[hemi_idx]
            if len(data) > 0:
                with warnings.catch_warnings(record=True):  # traits warnings
                    brain.add_data(data, colormap=colormap, vertices=vertices,
                                   smoothing_steps=smoothing_steps, time=times,
                                   time_label=time_label, alpha=alpha, hemi=hemi,
                                   colorbar=colorbar, **data_kwargs)
    
            # scale colormap and set time (index) to display
            brain.scale_data_colormap(fmin=scale_pts[0], fmid=scale_pts[1],
                                      fmax=scale_pts[2], transparent=transparent)
    
        if initial_time is not None:
            brain.set_time(initial_time)
    
        _toggle_mlab_render(brain._figures, True)
    
        if time_viewer:
            TimeViewer(brain)
    
        return brain
    

## Useful Links

- Articles: https://python-commandments.org/
- Python shell: https://bsdnerds.org/learn-python/
- Tutorial: https://pythonprogramminglanguage.com/
